Amazon Web Service:
-------------------
what is cloud?
	Just store the data in the remote place is called cloud.
	We will rent the services that you need and use only that services that you need
	
What is cloud computing?
	Cloud computing is a platform which is delivery of the computing service such as database, servers, networks, softwares ect over the internet to offer faster innovation.
	Cloud computing is to store the data on remote server, Process the data from servers, and Accessing the data via internet.	

Before cloud computing?
	There are three major problem are
		a) Buy the lot of server so that setup is more expensive.
		b) High traffic and since, traffic is varing, your server will be idle on most of time.
		c) Maintaince cost is high and if not, it cause troubleshoot issue

Benefit of Cloud Computing?
	1) Cost
	2) Speed
	3) Productivity
	4) Performace
	5) Security - Many cloud providers offer a broad set of policies, technologies and controls that strengthen your security posture overall, 
					helping protect your data, apps and infrastructure from potential threats.
	6) Relability - Cloud computing makes data backup, disaster recovery and business continuity easier and less expensive
	
Types of Cloud Computing/ deployment model?
	1) public cloud
		Public clouds are owned and operated by a third-party cloud service providers, which deliver their computing resources like servers 
			and storage over the Internet. Microsoft Azure is an example of a public cloud.
	2) private cloud
		A private cloud refers to cloud computing resources used exclusively by a single business or organisation. A private cloud can be physically 
			located on the company’s on-site data center. Some companies also pay third-party service providers to host their private cloud. 
		A private cloud is one in which the services and infrastructure are maintained on a private network
			
	3) hybrid cloud	
		Hybrid clouds combine public and private clouds, bound together by technology that allows data and applications to be shared between them. 
			By allowing data and applications to move between private and public clouds, a hybrid cloud gives your business greater flexibility, 
			more deployment options and helps optimise your existing infrastructure, security and compliance. 
	
Type of the Cloud service 0r cloud computing stack?
	1) Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
	2) Platform as a service (PaaS)
	3) Serverless computing
	4) Software as a service (SaaS) 
		
Different between Standard cloud app and serverleass cloud app?
	Standard cloud app has ascending order steps are Business logic+ API + Auth+ Workflow+ Plumbing (Java. Python, JS etc) and Static configuration (DB, storage, Permission).
	Serverless cloud app has ascending order are Business logic(Java, python etc), Configuration Logic (API/AUTH/workflow) and static configuration(DB, Stroge, etc)
			
		Open Source AWS serverless are
			AWS SAM
			CHALICE
			SERVERLESS EXPRESS
			SERVERLESS JAVA CONTAINER
			
			serverless
			APEX - helps out manage the function
			PULUMI - to manage the application in multiple language
			

Cloud computing with AWS:
-------------------------

	AWS is a secure cloud service provider platform which offer computer power, database storage, connect delivery and other functionally need to help the business and grow. 	

	AWS is a one of the leading cloud service provider in the market and need to buy the instance of the service in AWS.		
			
	Amazon Web Services (AWS) is the world’s most comprehensive and broadly adopted cloud platform, offering over 200 fully featured services from data centers 
		globally. Millions of customers—including the fastest-growing startups, largest enterprises, and leading government agencies—are using AWS to lower costs, 
		become more agile, and innovate faster.	
		
	
Why AWS?
	It has most services and more feature functionality	within the service.
	Most secure
	Fastest piece of innovation
	Most proven operational expertise like unmatched experience, maturity, reliability, security, and performance.
	Computer capcity is high. It is 6X times of all cloud provider except AWS.
	
Use Case of AWS?
	1) Manufacturing organisation
	2) Architecture consulting
	3) Media market
	4) Large enterprises

Advantage of AWS:
	1) Flexibility
	2) Cost effective
	3) Scalability
	4) Security
	5) Integrate API's

Global Architecture
	It is divided into two major parts, that is Region and availability zones.
		where regions means located across the world as more data centers.
			  availability zone is knows as data centers.

Domains of AWS:
	1) Compute( ec2 and Elestic beanstalk and AWS lambda)- Amazon EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) is a web service interface that provides resizable compute capacity
															and it is raw server so you can host a website.EC2 is clear slate 
															and does not have predefined libraries in it and we need to install it ex: java lib.
											               
														   Elestic beanstalk-This will help you to deploy the various application in the AWS and has predefined libraries.
														   
														   AWS lambda - It is automatic version of the EC2 where we don't get the OS so we don't required the any OS, 
																		we not deploy the application and just run in the background task.
																		It is a serverless compute service
																		
	2) Migration - AWS has a physical migration as well which means data can be move from the one data center to other datacenter.
				   It is more secure and In AWS has snowball.
				   It is in a storage service.
				   
	3) Security & Compliance - for security, there are lot of service like IAM( Identification and Authentication Management tool) and KMS which create private 
									and public keys will keep secure.
									
	4) Storage - 1) S3 which works as bucket object kind of thing Your storage place is a bucket and then object in the bucket are know files in the root .
				 2) Cloudfront which is your content delivery network 
				 3) Glacier is a plcae store archives because it is highly affortable 
				
	5) Networking - We have services like VPC(Virtual Private Cloud), Direct connect router 53( DNS)for connection within the AWS.
	
	6) Messaging - It is securing messages and few application will take that as well.In AWS, SES for emailing, cloud trils and cloudworks.
	
	7) Database - It is used store the file of the storage and in AWS, Aurora is database which performs SQL options  at a very faster rate.
					AWS will claims 5 times faster then any sql.
				 In AWS, has dynamic DB which is non relational DBMS,will real with unstrustured data sources 
				 
	8) Management tools - It is used to monitor and in AWS has cloudwatch which has alarms in it.				

Agenta:
	1) Introduction of Cloud computing in AWS
		a) service models
				
				   DATA
				APPLICATION
				  RUNTIME
				 MIDDLEWARE
				    OS
				VIRUALIZATION
				  SERVERS
				  STORAGE
				 NETWORKING
					
			
			Types as called cloud computing stack:
				1) Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
					 With IaaS, you rent IT infrastructure—servers and virtual machines (VMs), storage, networks, operating systems—from a cloud provider on a pay-as-you-go basis.
					 Services are	
						a) Server and Storage
						b) Networking firewall/security
						c) Data center physical plant/building
						
					Model is to maintain by this service is 	VIRUALIZATION, SERVERS, STORAGE and NETWORKING
			
				2) Platform as a service (PaaS)
					Platform as a service refers to cloud computing services that supply an on-demand environment for developing, testing, delivering and managing software applications. 
						PaaS is designed to make it easier for developers to quickly create web or mobile apps, without worrying about setting up or managing 
						the underlying infrastructure of servers, storage, network and databases needed for development.
					ex: google app 
					Services are
						a) Development tools, database management, business analyis
						b) OS
						c) IaaS Services.
						
					Model is to maintain by this service is RUNTIME, MIDDLEWARE, OS, VIRUALIZATION, SERVERS, STORAGE and NETWORKING	
			
				3) Serverless computing
					Overlapping with PaaS, serverless computing focuses on building app functionality without spending time continually 
						managing the servers and infrastructure required to do so.
					It has no server to provision or manage
					It has scales with usage
					Never pay for idle
					Availablity and fault tolerance build in 
					
					Open Source AWS serverless are
						AWS SAM
						SERVERLESS EXPRESS
						SERVERLESS JAVA CONTAINER
						
						serverless
						APEX -helps out manage the function
						PULUMI - to manage the application in multiple language
								
				4) Software as a service (SaaS)	
					Software as a service is a method for delivering software applications over the Internet, on demand and typically on a subscription basis. 
						With SaaS, cloud providers host and manage the software application and underlying infrastructure and handle any maintenance, like software upgrades 
						and security patching. Users connect to the application over the Internet, usually with a web browser on their phone, tablet or PC.
					
					SaaS is a cloud prodiver or software which is own by them to its client	
					ex: gmail	
					Services are 
						1) Hosted applications
						2) PaaS Services
						
					Model is to maintain by this service is APPLICATION, RUNTIME, MIDDLEWARE, OS, VIRUALIZATION, SERVERS, STORAGE and NETWORKING	
				
				
				
				
		b) Deployment models
					1) public cloud
						Public clouds are owned and operated by a third-party cloud service providers, which deliver their computing resources like servers 
							and storage over the Internet. Microsoft Azure is an example of a public cloud.
					2) private cloud
						A private cloud refers to cloud computing resources used exclusively by a single business or organisation. A private cloud can be physically 
							located on the company’s on-site datacenter. Some companies also pay third-party service providers to host their private cloud. 
							A private cloud is one in which the services and infrastructure are maintained on a private network
					3) hybrid cloud	
						Hybrid clouds combine public and private clouds, bound together by technology that allows data and applications to be shared between them. 
							By allowing data and applications to move between private and public clouds, a hybrid cloud gives your business greater flexibility, 
							more deployment options and helps optimise your existing infrastructure, security and compliance.
		
		c) Fundamental of AWS cloud
					1) Type of cloud server provider:
						a) AWS
						b) GCP
						c) Microsoft Azure
						d) IBM cloud etc
					
		
	2) Compute Service of AWS
		
		a) what is instance
				1) An instance means virual server for runnung the applications on AWS EC2. It can be understood like a tiny part of the computer 
					but it is actually it is all virtual. 
				2) For virtual environment where run different OS as a isolated way and run the application using instance called instance of AWS
				
		b) AWS EC2 service
				1) Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud is a web server from amazon that provider resizeable and reusable computer service in the cloud.
				2) It is raw server and like a peasonnal computer.
				3) It is one of oldest AWS service.
				4) We can used this any OS and confiruation to any worker envoriment which is automated by AWS E2.
				5) Adv.
					a) Scalable
					b) cost effective
					c) highly flexiable
					
			Type of EC2 instance
				a) General Purpose Instance
					Thees instance is for applications, that require a balance of the performancce and cost.ex: email respose systems.
					
				b) Compute Instances 
					There instance is for applications, that require a lot of processing from CPU. ex: Analysis streaming data
					
				c) Memory instances
					There instance is for applications, that require a lot of ram and it is heavy in nature. ex: Application needs multi tasking or multi processing 
					
				d) Storage instances	
					There instance is for applications,that require are huge in size or have a data set that occupies lot of space. ex: Large sized application.

				e) GPU instance	
					There instance is for applications,that require are some high graphics rendering. ex: 3D modelling.
					
		c) AWS Elastic Beans Talk service
						
			what is elastic bean talk?
			    1) It is automatic version of the EC2 and used to deploy the application so basically just upload the code and your application deployed 
				     in the AWS infrastructure and has predefinied libraries in it.
			    2) It is a platform as a service type (PaaS) where you can deployed the application like java etc on the server like Apache tomcat, IIS etc.
				3) When we using Elastic beanstalk, is to develop  the application and concernate on code and rest will take care by Elastic Beanstalk like EC2 instaceing,
						auto-scalacing, security and monitoring etc.
				4) In PaaS, you can get the collection of feedback in different stages in PaaS like developmentstage, deployment stage etc. 		
					
			Advantage:
				1) Quiker deployment 
				2) Simplifiers opeartion
				3) Cost effectiveness 
				4) Multi-Tenant archituture - means shared the application to multiple users.
				5) High security
				6) Best User Experience.	
			 
			Features of the elastic beans talk?
				1) Elastic Beanstalk is a fast and simple way to deploy the application.
				2) Focus on the code and rest will take care by elastic beanstalk
				3) Automatically scale is avilable.
				4) Gives freedom to select the AWS resouce like EC2 instance.
				
			Components of Elastic beans talk?
				Application : An application is a collections of components including enivorment, versions and env configuration where the application is similar to the folder.
								which means all required file to that application is stored in the folder ex:tomcat-app and like elastic beanstalk will create a separate folder.
								in AWS teams, The folder is called as Application.
								
				Application version:If we upload in the Elastic Beanstalk and launched the application, but some changes in the code and again deploy the code in
										elastic beanstalk and launched it, thus, AWS follow different in it by changes in the version called running verion or application version
				
				Environment : It is place where run the application. elastic beanstalk will create multiple environment for the single application 
							    like tomcat-webapp-dev, tomcat-webapp-test, tomcat-webapp-prod etc.
								
				Environment Tiers: When we try to launch the elastic beanstalk enivorment, it will ask the two enivorment server which are 
									Web server tier - it is to handle the HTTP server environment
									Worker tier	- it is processing in the backgroup task.
	
				Environment Healt: Elastic beanstalk will monitor the health of the web server envoriment in the four colour are Gr(Gay)- indicates the envoriment begin update,
									G(Green)- Passed health check, Y(Yellow)- Failed one or more checks and R(Red)- failed three or more checks.						
								
			Articuture of Elastic beans talk?
				Web server environment: - handle http request from the clients and diffecent components are 
					1) Beanstalk Environment - means is a place where depoly and run the application in elastic beanstalk.
					2) ELastic Load Balancer - If Application receive lot of HTTP requests and load balncer will distribute these request to the all other EC2 instances.
												Happened when, lauched the enivorment where URL is created in th C name  for elastic load balancer.
					3) Auto scaling group - It will install few number of the EC2 instace if traffic is high. The trafficis low, then it will terminate the EC2 instances.
					4) EC@ instance - When launched the Beanstalk env application, beanstalk will assign to the suitable instance by http request, but 
the software stack  like OS, different software, server are installed on the instance whic is decided by the device called container type.
					5) HM(Host Manager) - It is software component and has various task like preformace task, instant level events,log files, 
					6) Security Group( DB ) -It s lie a firewall to your instace which allows client to access the port 80. 		
					
				Worker environment	- TO handle all the tasks from the web server environment and is a process that handle the backgroup tasks.
					1) In AWS resource, resource intensive or time-intensive operations.
							Email notification
							Generates Reports
							Cleanup the database
							
				How does two environments communicate?
					1) We have one web server environment where Beanstalk will have connected to the Sqs and create the sqs message.
					2) then, this message put in the sqsq in the worker environment where elastic beanstalk will install daemon in the worker environment.
					3) Deamon will does to pull the sqs message from sqsq and sent the star HTTP- POST to the web application and running at the post 80
					4) The Beanstalk application will send the HTTP response back to the Deamon.
					5) And then, URL will execute and htese two environment will communicate.

			DEMO on elastic beanstalk?
				1) Go to Elastic Beanstalk and use to depoly the application elastic beanstalk.
				2) click on the Create new application button.
				3) Give name of the application and click ok so that new application is created and separaect folder will assign to the elastic beanstalk application.
				4) Create enviorment by clicking the environment and then create new enviorment
				5) click on the web server enviorment and create web server environment has giving correct application name and domain name and platform.Enter submit
				6) Environment dashboard is appear and see the output in the page.
				7) In that page, go to configuration tab. change instance , security group etc now the SG is awseb-e-tzi2b4zivp-stack-AWSEBSecurityGroup-Z88F25R2X7UU 
				8) After checking, click to upload and depoly the application by referring in the AWS Elastic Beanstalk document and 
						download wanted zip file codein develop guide.https://docs.aws.amazon.com/elasticbeanstalk/latest/dg/GettingStarted.DeployApp.html
				9) After download the code, just update file to the enviroment by going to it.		
				
				
		
		d) AWS Lamba service	
				1) It is automatic version of the EC2 where we don't get the OS so we don't required the any OS, we not deploy the application and just run the background task
				2) It is serverless compute service.
			
			Why Lamba Service?
					It is automatic version of the EC2
					No worry about the underlying archituture
					For excuting the background tasks 
					
		    Use this service
				AWS SDK( software development kids):
					It is used by the service with API call to your programming language or platform and API's are defined in it.
					These API are can be intergated with IDE to use  it easily.Only two IDE is support which are eclipse and VSC
					
			Using AWS LAMBA in eclipse IDE
					1) In eclipse, go to install new software, use https://aws.amazon.com/eclipse and select all plugin and install the software.
					2)And then, eclipse said for access key and secert key, so click excitinf credential and navigate to 
						https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/security_credentials  and tab access key and download key excel and copy ti paste in eclipse dialog.
					3) Thus, AWS icon is created in eclipse home page as a AWS explorer.

			DEMO:
				1) Our aim to create an application and will updated in the S3, the file will be processed by Lamda and in turn will send you email with all the details,
					If you replied to that email, it will move the file to the specifical folder
					Flow is 
						 -----------------website/email-----------------------
			fileupload  |										              | Reply mail
					File System(S3)                                           ROuter 53 
						|										              |for receiving mail
				Background task( AWS LAMDA)<for send mail-exe function>	     Emailing user ( SES simple email system )	
						||
					   SQS( Query )
				2) Create a bucket in AWS console page called demobucket-aws.
				3) Select the Propertie tab and click events notification and create function for lambda and save the events,.(Backgroup task)AWS Lambda is completed
				4) Set create role for function is to go IAM (https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home?#/roles). 
				5) Now, SQS select the SQS in databoard 
				6) select create query and select fifo query and name as hello-lambda.fifo	
				7) And click the query file box and choose  config and connect the function to it. 
				8) For SES, go to SES in AWS, click on email address tab and verify with our email id.
				9) for SES, domain name should be created using my.dot.tk
				10) create domain name by this portal and name is awsbala.tk and go to domain, verify the domain and close it.
				11) We need to have DNS, for go to router 53 and create host domian as awsbala.tk.
				12) create a rule set in the router 53
				13) write the function code in IDE and upload it in the AWS
				
		e) Instance Pricing models
				1) On-Demand instace on price
					It is an instance that you demand, you get it for time period.
					It is for limited time frame.	
					
				2) Dedicated instance on price
					It is a instace which are given to the organisation so security is better than others.
					It has or provided extra assurance for the security to the organisation
					
				3) On Spot instance on price
					It is an instance taht is simillar to biddig kind. if the price of the instance is high, then we can't use that instance.
					
				4) Reserved instance on price
					It is an instace which will for longer time to the person or organisation
					
			Instance are classificed base on their functionality		
				1) Burstable - It is used to clear the CPU space for 20% and performancce can be increase.
				2) EBS Optimised - it is to processing the data for highest speed and gives quick response.
				3) Cluster Networking- it is to create a form of clusters in AWS ex: group of database and storge for networking
				4) Dedicated - it is more related to the security part.
				
		f) Use case
			 Edureka needs four instance in the project are
					1) Analysis of customer's data -  Burstable instance
					2) Auto response email system - EBS Optimised instance
					3) Search engine and browsing - Cluster Networking instance
					4) Confidental Data Processing - Dedicated instance
			 

	3) Storage Service of AWS -- storage means a bucket or container
	
		1) What is cloud storge ?
				In simple, It is a storage which is avilable as a service and connected over a network.
				The cloud storage is the storage of data for emails, media, services like websites and backup data.
				In software term,It is a mechanism that will store the data and let perform the actions for processing and managing it data.
		
		2) Cloud storge myths? means cloud storge idea.
				1) It is suitable for the single or small or large scale organization
				2) It is not conplexity with cloud.
				3) It is a eco-friendly
				4) Less downtime and have disaster recovery and has backup.
				5) Need to cloud storage.
				
		3) Benfits of using cloud for data storage?
				1) It is customer friendly.
				2) Secure
				3) Pocket friendly- you can rent the service.
				
		4) Cloud service pratices?
				1) Scrutinize SLA - It is a agreement for storage 
				2) Follow the business needs - choose proper storage
				3) ENsure security.
				4) plan the storage in future
				5) besure about the cost.
			
		5) Storge service provider?
				
		6) Demo on AWS cloud storage?	
		a) AWS S3 
			It is highly durable and highly reliable.
		b) Glacier
		c) EFS
		d) EBS
		
	4) Netwoorking Service of AWS
		a) VPC
		b) Route 53
		c) Cloudfront

	5) Moniting and management Service of AWS
		a) Cloud Watch
		b) CLoud FOrmation
		c) Load Balancer

	6) Security Service of AWS
		a) 	IAM	
	
	7) Database Service of AWS
		a) Amazon Redshift	
		
	8) Develops of AWS
		a) AWS codeline
		b) AWS Codecommit
		c) AWS codebuild
		
	
		