1) what is Statefull and Stateless serive in RestAPI?
	  STATEFULL is that application will save the client data on the one session and use the same client data in the anthor session when client is request.
			ex:  Postgres, and mySQL are statefull services
	  STATELESS is that application will not save the client data on the one session so it will not use the client data in the another session.
			ex:  HTTP,UDP are stateless services
			
2) what is a Kernal?
	  Kernal is a application interface program which will communite hardware and OS.
	  and It is program has bootloader which as a loads into memory which performs varity of the tasks. 
	  ex: ubuntu OS.
	  Written in C and assembly langange
	  Doc for Kernal: https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/latest/
	  
3) what is KVM?
	  Kernal Virtual Machine is build on Linux into the hypervisor to allows a host machine to run multiple.
	  KVM converts Linux into a type-1 (bare-metal) hypervisor.

4) What is container in docker?
      Container is a stanard unit to package all the code and all the dependency 
		so it can run the application and reliably from one computing environment to the another environment
			
5) What is CI/CD?
	  CI/CD refers to continuous integration and continuous delivery and development.
	  It is a part of the DevOps process, and creates more efficient pipelines in application delivery through constant code testing, 
		integration, deployment, and updating.
	  CI/CD is essential to the cloud, and is better enabled through microservices and containerization.
	  CI/CD as a service allows service providers to offer automated pipelines for enterprises to build upon.	

6) What is Clustered Operating System (OS)?
	 Cluster System: Cluster systems like as parallel systems because both systems use multiple CPUs. 
					But, main difference is that clustered systems are made by two or more individual systems but they are connected with each other.
	 COS:  Cluster Operating systems are mixer of software and hardware clusters. 
				Hardware cluster provides help to share of ultra performance disks in between all computer systems, and 
				Software cluster offers better environment for all system to work together.	
	  