Jenkins:
-------
	It is a open surce automated server or is a CI server and is a back bone of the Devops.
	It is written in java	

Agenda:
	1) Introduction of CI.
	2) Introduction of Jenkins.
	3) CICD pipeline concepts.
	4) Jenkins Docker intregrates.
	5) Jenkins GIT intregrates.
	6) Jenkins Selenium intregrates.
	7) Introduction of Jenkins X.
	8) Jenkins interview questions.	

Introduction of CI
	Before CI
		Long wait to test code
		Diffcult to debug the code
		Slow software delivery process
		Infrequent(unusual) feedback cycle
	After CI
		CI is a server used to compile, test and deploy.
			ex: Amazon is a great example where release can be every 11 secs fastly.
		It is fixes the feedback and time issues.
		
Introduction of Jenkins:
	It is open serve automation tools.
	It is written in java	
	As many plugins, in that it has continous in it also
	
	Jenkins as
		Build
		Document
		Package
		Test
		Deploy
		Static analysis

	Jenkins Architecture:
		Source code( GIT ) --> Jenkins Server( Jenkins Build server, Jenkins Test server and Prodution server for deployment)
		
			
Jenkins Master Slave architecture:
	This architeature is used to have scalability.
	
	Jenkins server will work for minumun jobs but for more jobs, then we need to have master slave architerate where master is a jenkins server and slave will be
			1 or more server like windows, linux and mac.
		   Slave will commiute with master via TCP/IP connection only.
			It will have JNLP(Java Network Lanuch Protocol  ) agent.
	It is also called as distributed Jankins build.
	
Introduction of Distributed Jenkins build:
	The master-slave architecture of Jenkins is used for distributed build environments, where the workload of building projects is distributed 
		to multiple agent nodes or slaves. We can also different environments for each build.
	It will use to have configure the master node and slave node.
	It would manage the node for distributed jobs.
	Master node will get the information of job for slave node.

Advantage:
	Parallel build
	Replacing any system down node instance
	Load distribution
	COst effective.
	
	
How to lanuch the jenkins slave node:
	There are four method
		by agents via scm
		by agent via java web start
		by windows slave
		by cmd on master.
		
CICD pipeline in jenkins.
	Before pipeline:
		There are followed Jenkins Build flow, Jenkins Build pipe plugins and Jenkins workflow but there are some drawback in it.
	After pipeline:
		This, Jenkins pipeline is introducted which is single platform that run entire pipeline as a code
		All the standard jobs defined by jenkins which are in one script and store in the git vcs.
		In Jenkinsfile, we can get the workflow of the entire code.
		
WHat is a Jenkinsfile?
		It ia a text file that stores the flow of the pipeline as a code entire application.
		It is written in Grooving DSL.
		There are two syntax are	
			1) Declarative pipeline
				It is a locally written and store in the vcs.
				The code is defined in the pipeline block in the Jenkinsfile.
				
			2) Scripted pipeline
				It is a wriiten on the jenkins UI instances
				The code is definied in the node block.
				
Pipeline Concept:

	Pipeline:
		A user can definied pipeline block which as all the stages. It is a declarative pipeline.
			ex:
			pipeline {
						}
						
	Node:
		A node is a machine that execute the workflow of the application. It is a scripted pipeline.
		ex: node {
					}
					
	Agent: 
		Agent is to allocate an executor for the builds. It ia defined for entire pipeline or specific stage.
		Parameter are 
			Any: any pipeline or stages
			None: It is only for root of the pipeline
			Label: execute pipeline/ stgae on the label agent
			Docker: Uses the docker container.
				pipeline {
					agent{
						docker{
							image 'ubuntu'
							}
				}
		}
	Stages:
		It is contain all the work cmd and each stage perform a specific task.
		pipeline {
			agent any
			stages{
				stage(''build) {...}
				}
			}
	Step:
		It is to carried out in sequence to execute the a stage
		pipeline{
			agent any	
				stages{
						stage ('build'){
						step {
						}
						}}}}
						
	Parallel:
	When:

	Script Pipeline Demo:

			node{
			 for(int i=0; i<2; i++){
				stage "stage #"+1
				print('')
				if( i==0)}
					git path
					echo ''
				else{
				build 'declarative pipeline'
				echo "Running stage"
				}				
			}
			

Jenkins Docker Integration:
	Docker file --> virual machine(DOcker image with docker container) --> docker hub --> stagging server/ production server.

what is miroservice?
	Before microservice, there are used monolithical architecture where it was a single instance for all the services.
	On microservice, there are separate every services as a single module so that its resolve the monolithical draw back and reduce the time.

Advantage of Microservice:
		1) Independent development
		2) Indepenented deployment
		3) Fault Isolation
		4) Mixed technology stack
		5) Scaling.
		
Different between VM and Docker:
VM     : If we have five micro service to be deploy in VM, needs 5 vm  in the single machine
Docker : Same, we have five micro service to be deployed,then docker will have 5 docker containers in the single VM at one machine.

VM:  Developer Laptop ---> 5 VM's
Docker:	Developer Laptop --> 1 vm --> 5 Docker containers.

Flow of Jenkins with docker:
	Git as 4 services wiht separate Dockerfile --> Jenkens sevrer (mvn install--> 4 jars --> 4 docker image services)-->docker hub --> stagging/production server.
	

Jenkins Selenium Integrator:
	Selenium is an open source tool which automates web brower testing.
	It is mainly used for functionally or regression testing.

Selenium support:
	Programmimg support --> Java, C#, Python, perly, Ruby and PHP.
	Web broswer support --> GC, IE, firefox, Opera.
	Operating system support --> Windows, MAc , Linux.

Selenium role in the Devops:
   It is used as continous testing.
   To achive continous testing, Selenium needs Jenkins and TestNG(for test reports)
	
Achiving Continous testing:
	Five steps are
	1) Create test case with selenium on eclipse IDE or any IDE.
	2) Create XML files for executing TestNG test suit.
	3) Create window batch file
	4) Build the jenkins build using the batch file
	5) We can schedule job and send the report via email notification by configure option as Jenkins--> Confige-->email notification and perdicslly give cron syntax
	
Introduction of Jenkins X:
	It is created by James Strachan in mar 2018 who was created groovy, apache camel.
	It supports K8S, cloud native and CICD pipeline.
	Jenkins X supports many number of K8S and which is to buidling the docker container where stores in the docker registry and deployed in K8S.

Features of Jenkins X:
	Automated CICD pipeline.
			It has allows the command line tool which hasJenkins X to be installed inside the K8S clusher and import the project of bootstrap the new application.
			Jenkins X create pipeline foe application automatically.
	Environment properties
			Jenkins X allows different virual envorment to created like staging/ production using K8S name space
	Serverless Jenkins:
			Jenkins X is a serverless Jenkins due to have many cpu, memery
	Preview Enviroment
			Jenkins has automattically created preview envormentusing the pull command is execute or manually created.
			
Different between Jenkins and Jenkins X:

Jenkins: It is a unopinonted view.
Jenkins X: It is a opinoned view ex: docker, K8S

Jenkins: Required sereval intregation and plugins to configure.
Jenkins X: Simplifier configure.

Jenkins:  Adapt to the process where are required.
Jenkins X: Definite process

Jenkins: first GUI approved
Jenkins X: CLI/ GUI approved
			
	

	
		