Linux:
	It is a free open source OS and serve OS where OS is a software to directly manages hardware and resouce like CPU, memory and storage for multiple user.
	It is a kernal not a OS on its own.
	Linux is created in 1991 based on the UNIX OS.
	It use the monolithic kernal used in the linux for improving preformance and it is dynamically driver load in it.
					where kernel is used to connects the system hardware to the application software and Kernel is part of the operating system.
						And the most crucial. For it to be an OS, it is supplied with GNU software and other additions giving us the name GNU/Linux
	To make a linux to micro service by using Berkeley Packet Filter.	
	Linux has an abstract layer which is  
			1) to govern the differect file systems, but for user file system look like a hierarchical directery tree.
			2) Networking dervice oriented
			3) virual file system
	Linux storger will accessed through page cache with virual memory systems.
	For minimuize duplicated files sharing in Linux, user pair sharing and copy on write in the memory  management system.
	

HIstory of Linux:
			Unix OS is mother of the Linux OS.
	1969 -- C and Unix OS is introducted.
	1970 -- declared the uxix os has commercial use
	1980 -- Compnaies are not used Unix but created own OS like IBM as AIX, Solaries as Sun OS.
	1980's mid--GNU team as GNU project where to access the OS for free of cost, author is richard and ,
			Now, Linux is just a kernal but not a OS on its own.
			
Linux vs Windows
	1) what is windows
			It is licensed operating system which is designed for individual.
			it is ease to use, portable and multi operate enivorment.
			It use hybrid kernal in old version, now micro kernel.
	2) Linux vs windows
		a) User
			Linux  : 
				3 users in linux
					1) Regular 
						a) when regular account is created in linux, when install ubuntu in the system, all files and folders will stored in the /home/  
							which is home directory
						b) regular user will access to the home dir but not for other directery.
						
					2) Administrative or root 
						a) It is created at the time of installlation and called as super user acount
						b) This user can access to all directory, install software, admin priviledges.
						
					3) Service
						a) Linux has widely uses service operating system and services like apache, email etc which will increase the security.
					
			windows:
				4 users account in windowa
					1) Administrator
					2) Standard
					3) Child
					4) Guest
					
		b) Usage 
			Linux   :
				Linux mainly used in industry
			WIndows :
			    92% using windiw in the systems and graphical user interface
				
		c) Kernel
			Linux   : monolithic kernel which compose more space
			WIndows : micro kernel
			
		d) File systems
			Linux   : tree like structure is stored in Linux
					  In unix or Linux, everything is a file.
			Windows : file and folder is storeed in normal c, d,e drive	
			
		e) Security
			Linux   : it is very stable and secure than window
			WIndows : it is not secure than linux
			
		f) Compatibility
			Linux   : Linux is not compatibility than window for software and service in it
			Windows : Winows has more compatibility than Linux for there software.
			
		g) Easy to use
			Linux   : Non-technial user can install Linux and operate the day to day activies like net, music etc
			WIndows : Window is one easy to use than Linux
			
		h) Privacy
			Linux   : It is a privacy due to having private OS.
			WIndows : Not privacy even windows will see it.
			
		i) Source code
			Linux  : User can access the source code of this OS
			Windows: User can not access any source code
			
		j) License
			Linux : Free
			Window: Money
			
List out the distributions are out there?	
	CentOS- It is one of the most used Linux Distribution for enterprise and web servers. 
			It is a free enterprise class Operating system and is based heavily on Red Hat enterprise Distro.
			
	LinuxMint- It is one of the most popular Desktop Distributions available out there. 
			   It launched in 2006 and is now considered to be the fourth most used Operating system in the computing world.

	Debian-	Debian is a stable and popular non-commercial Linux distribution. It is widely used as a desktop Linux Distro and is user-oriented. 
			It strictly acts within the Linux protocols.			

	Ubuntu-  This is the third most popular desktop operating system after Microsoft Windows and Apple Mac OS. 
			 It is based on the Debian Linux Distribution, and it is known as its desktop environment.		

	RedHat enterprise- Another popular enterprise based Linux Distribution is Red Hat Enterprise.
					   It has evolved from Red Hat Linux which was discontinued in 2004. 
					   It is a commercial Distro and very popular among its clientele.	
	
	Fedora - It is sponsed by RHEL. 
		
Basic Linux commands:
	pwd - to find out what directory you are currently in
	cp - allows you to copy files and directories
		cp [tags] [sourcce] [destriction]
		1) cp -i -> enter the interactive mode, for overwrite the file.
		2) cp -n -> does not over write the file
		3) cp -u -> update the destriny file when the source file is vary from the destrination
		4) cp -R -> recursive copy , copy even when it is in hidden files
		5) cp -v -> Verbose, print the informative message like print the status of the files.
	mv - to move the file or folder.
		1) mv -i -> enter the interactive mode for over riding the file and folder
		2) mv -u -> update the destination file when there is any change in the source file.
		3) mv -v -> it the verbose mode, prints source and destination file or folder.
	cd - used to change the current working directory in Linux
	echo - used to move some data into a file
	mv - used to rename and move and files and directories from one location to another
	sort - for sorting lines of text files.
		1) sort file1 file2 -> to sort the multiple files in the alphabrital order
		2) sort -r file1 - reverse order
		3) sort -f file1 -> in the insensitive sorting
		4) sort -n file1 -> numerical order.
		5) | -> it is pipe command is used to perform the two operator in the one and same command
					ex: grep am File3.txt | sort -r
		
		
	su -  switch the current user to any other user
	sudo - allows you to run programs as another user, by default the root user.
	grep - will search for the word blue in the notepad file
		1) grep [options] file1 -> result for maching the options to the words in the file. ex: grep am File3.txt
		2) grep -i [options] file2.txt -> grep offers to search a pattern without looking at the case of the pattern. Use -i flag to tell grep to ignore case.
		3) grep -v ->If you want to find something which doesn’t match a given pattern, grep allows doing just that with -v flag..
		4) grep -w ->It’s not always that we want a partial match but instead expect grep to match a complete word only. You can do that with -w flag.
		5) grep -c -> count Sometimes instead of the actual matched line, we need just the count of successful matches that grep made. We can get this count using -c option.
		6) grep -r [opt] *->sub folder It’s often needed to search files not just in the current working directory but also in subdirectories. grep allows you to easily do that with -r flag.
		7) grep -n [opt] * ->grep allows you to print line numbers along with printed lines which makes it easy to know where the line is in the file.
		8) grep -m[nums] [opt] *->For big files likes logs etc. grep output can be long and you may just need a fixed number of lines in the output instead of matching everything
		9) grep -A[nums] [opt] *-> Often we need not just the lines which have a matching pattern but some lines above or below it for better context. it is to next line
		10)grep -B[nums] [opt] *-> it is to pervious line.
		11)grep -x [opt] *.txt -> print the exact file or Sometimes we need to print lines that match exactly with a given pattern, not some part of it. grep allows -x flag to do just that.
		12)grep [opt] ^string *.txt -> we can find a string at the start of a line. Here’s how to do it.
		13)grep [opt] mate$ -> to match the end of the line pattern.
		14)grep -e [opt] -> for multiple line words pattern ex: grep -e is -e it -e that File2.txt
	man - used to display the manual page of a given command.
	cat -  prints the contents of one or more files and merge (concatenate) files by appending one file’s contents to the end of another file
	chmod - allows you to change the file permissions. It works in two modes, symbolic and numeric.
	curl - to transfer data to or from a server, using any of the supported protocols (HTTP, FTP, IMAP, POP3, SCP, SFTP, SMTP, TFTP, TELNET, LDAP or FILE)
	apt-get - used to install and update packages
	telnet - send to create a remote connection with a system over a TCP/IP network
	usermod - To add an existing user to a group
	passwd - To change your own user’s account password
	touch - used to update the timestamps on existing files and directories as well as to create new, empty files
	whoami -  used to get the user name and group information along with the respective security identifiers (SID), privileges, 
					logon identifier (logon ID) for the current user (access token) on the local system
	whatis - to get brief information about Linux commands or functions
	whereis - to locate binary, source and manual pages of commands in the Linux system 
	which - to locate executables in the system. It allows user to pass several command names as arguments to get their paths in the system	
	gedit - used to search for a string of characters in a specified file and stands for Global Regular Expression Print.
	nslookup -  used to query specific DNS resource records (RR)
	ifconfig - 	utility for Linux machines to configure,assign,add,delete,control and query network interface in Unix/Linux machine
	chown - allows you to change the user and group ownership of a given file, directory, or symbolic link
	lsof - used to find out which files are open by which process
	ln - creates a link to that file in the current working directory with the same name as the file it points to
	chmod - change the permissions
	chown - change the access permission for file and folder
	chgrp - change the access permission for the group.
	
	
	permission patterns in the linux are
		d            rwx          rwx         w-x  				1 			 eduraka 					eduraka						5215500022				aug 2016
	file/folder     User         Group       other 			Symbolic		Owner name 					Group name 						size 					date
		type      Permission   Permission  Permission		  link
		
	where type is 
				normal file - "-"
				directory file - "d"
				characher specific file - "c"
				binery specific file - "b"
				
	where permission word is 
				w -write
				r - read
				x - Excute
				
	where the denotions are
				u - User
				g - Group
				0 - Other
				a - all
				
				